many people think of the Hawaiian
Islands as a Pacific paradise a string
of tropical islands lush with exotic
flora and fauna but the islands native
species especially birds had been under
increasing pressure since humans first
settle here Hawaii
is the bird extinction capital of the
world the 50th state has a reputation as
an island paradise but I think a lot of
people don't realize that and through a
long history of animal and plant
introductions
Hawaii's bird populations have been
decimated George Wallace a vice
president at the American Birth
Conservancy the APC was among the first
groups to sound the alarm about Mongoose
on the island of Kauai the predator can
be devastating to water birds that come
ashore to raise just one chick per year
Mongoose are not great climbers of trees
but they are very capable of taking the
nestlings and eggs of ground nesting
birds and that would be particularly the
hawaiian water birds the mongoose had no
natural enemies in the hawaiian islands
they are a common sight along roadsides
and near garbage dumps the island of
Kauai had been free of mongoose until
recently so it spurs are doing better
than those on the other islands brad
partner is with the US Fish and Wildlife
Service there are over a hundred species
of birds that are unique to Hawaii and
only only exist there over seventy one
species have gone extinct and there's
another 31 that are listed as threatened
and endangered Mongoose are just one of
many threats facing Hawaii's birds there
are older invasive animals and plants
insect foreign diseases and habitat
destruction partners say the Fish &
Wildlife Service has joined with other
groups to restore habitats installed
predator traps and fencing and support
captive breeding programs for such
endangered bird species as the Hawaiian
crow recent surveys showed that the
populations of some Native Hawaiian bird
species unique to the islands are down
to just a few hundred individuals George
Wallace says the lack of resources Lee
it's that response to the crisis if you
look at all of the bird species listed
under the Endangered Species Act they're
over about 90 in the United States
one-third of them occur in Hawaii but
only 4% of the funding for the recovery
of endangered species actually goes to
these birds on Hawaii to raise public
awareness about Hawaii's threatened
Birds
the American bird Conservancy recently
released a 30-minute documentary called
endanger Hawaii the video is available
on internet and is being distributed to
schools and government agencies this is
Selena Palacio POA News Washington